A Whisper in an Age of Shouting

Rosen feels that Charles Stover deserves a monument because of all the major things he has done for new york. 
Stover's main goals were to “preserve Central Park and develop more parks and playgrounds in poor neighborhoods.
”One example of his achievements was when he founded the Outdoor Recreation League with Lillian Wald. 
This league-sponsored “the construction of playgrounds as a substitute for unsupervised street play” 
and made it easier for kids to play with friends while also reducing the risk of injury. This had a 
major effect on new york because it reduced the number of accidents caused by street play. Stover, 
who was now the parks commissioner, also created the Bureau of Recreation. This bureau built 20-30 
playgrounds in its first three years, including “DeWitt Clinton Park, Seward Park, and Jacob Riis Park.” 
This in association with the ORL would help start his legacy for caring about the poor and needy.
Another example of his achievements is when he used the University Settlement House as a means of 
communicating the harsh conditions poor people had to face in New York. Stover's work influenced the 
lives of countless individuals, rich and poor, “An 18-year-old Eleanor Roosevelt, for example, 
volunteered as a dance instructor at the University Settlement House, and it was there that she opened 
her boyfriend Franklin’s eyes to the conditions of the poor. “Franklin looked around in surprise and horror,” 
she recalled years later in her memoir. “ ‘My God,’ he whispered, ‘I didn’t know people lived like that!’ 
” That, too, is Stover’s legacy.”
Charles Stover's monument teaches us that not all monuments have to be extremely large and design heavy 
and that some of the smallest and most simple monuments can behold some of the greatest people the world 
has seen. His monument stands as a reminder of what he did and how much of an influence he had on New York. 

“He spent his time and money providing playgrounds, gardens, housing and other services for poor immigrant 
children and their families, all the while battling his depression.”
